.\" Copyright (c) 2017, 2018,
.\" Dmitry Salychev <darkness.bsd@gmail.com>,
.\" Alexander Salychev <ppsalex@rambler.ru> et al.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * Neither the name of the <organization> nor the
.\"       names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
.\"       derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\" THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd DATE September 3, 2017
.Os
.Dt AVRSIM 1
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh NAME
.Nm avrsim
.Nd simulator for Atmel AVR MCUs (part of MCUSim)
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl p Ar partno
.Fl U Ar memtype:op:filename
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Avrsim
is an interpreting simulation program to run ROM files which are intended
to be loaded directly into the integrated circuit (Atmel AVR MCUs).
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ss Options
In order to run simulation for different MCUs and load specific ROM file,
a number of options need to be specified to
.Nm avrsim .
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width indent
.It Fl p Ar partno
This is one of two mandatory options for every invocation of
.Nm avrsim .
It specifies the type of the simulated MCU. For currently supported MCU
types use ? as partno, this will print a list of partno ids and official
part names on the terminal.
.It Xo Fl U Ar memtype Ns
.Ar \&: Ns Ar op Ns
.Ar \&: Ns Ar filename Ns
.Xc
Perform a memory operation as indicated.  The
.Ar memtype
field specifies the memory type to operate on.
The available memory types are device-dependent. Typically, a device's memory
configuration at least contains the memory types
.Ar flash
and
.Ar eeprom .
All memory types currently known are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "calibration" -compact
.It flash
The flash ROM of the device.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar op
field specifies what operation to perform:
.Bl -tag -width noreset
.It Ar w
read data from the specified file and write to the device memory
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar filename
field indicates the name of the Intel HEX file to read.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ss Commands
.Nm Avrsim
operates in a terminal mode by default and accepts these commands:
.Bl -tag -offset indent -width indent
.It Ar step , next , stepi , nexti , si , ni , s , n
Execute next instruction.
.It Ar step N
Execute next
.Ar N
instructions.
.It Ar until ADDR
Execute instructions until the given address in form
.Ar 0xABCD .
Last executed instruction is placed at
.Ar ADDR .
.It Ar where
Print next instruction.
.It Ar run , r
Start execution of the program.
.It Ar set listsize N
Print
.Ar N
instructions during the next call to the 'list' command.
.It Ar show listsize
Print current number of instructions to show during the 'list' command.
.It Ar list , l
Show next
.Ar N
instructions.
.El
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm Avrsim
was written by Dmitry Salychev <darkness.bsd@gmail.com>.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.Sh BUGS
Please report bugs via
.Dl "https://github.com/dsalychev/mcusim/issues" .
